# Optimization of X-ray grating interferometry for the Compton regime

Most applications of X-ray radiography and tomography in medicine and
nondestructive testing require acceleration voltages above 100 kV. The aim
of our experiments is to explore the applicability and performance of
grating interferometry as a phase-sensitive imaging technique to
conventional table-top sources with voltages of 160 kVp and 225 kVp.

The large thickness and small pitch required for such high-energy
applications are not reachable by the currently available microfabrication
techniques, therefore we employ an edge-on arrangement, where the gratings
are not illuminated on the face but lay down in the beam plane, so that
arbitrarily high aspect ratios can be achieved at the cost of one spatial
dimension.

The data acquired with an interferometer with a design energy of 120 keV
show that the relationship between the dark-field and absorption signals is
significantly different with respect to a low energy regime dominated by
photoelectric absorption. The two signals become the expression of the Compton
effect through extinction at large angles (absorption) or scattering at
small angles (dark-field), and the complementarity that resulted in
information about the effective atomic number of the sample is lost.
A residual complementarity is still observed in objects with ordered
microstructures resulting in anisotropic scattering distributions.

A more detailed analysis reveals that we can express the dark-field as a
function of the absorption through a constant R = log(dark-field) /
log(absorption). We show how this ratio changes with the geometry of the
interferometer by comparing four different setups and measuring various
homogeneous samples. Being constant across different materials, the ratio R
determines basically how quickly the visibility of the interferometer
degrades at a given absorption level, thus affecting the phase retrieval
when the visibility reduction becomes very strong.
